# Eluvio_DS_Challenge

For this challenge, I mainly work on the following tasks:

1. Added new columns to the datasets. The columns include the year of the video; the mean, median and 75, 80, 85, 90, 95 percentiles of up_votes number in the year each video belong to; two indicators to indicate whether the video has more upvotes than the median/ 75 percentile upvotes of that year, which are used to classify the videos.
2. Data exploration to check how the up_vote numbers of videos relates to other variables. After the exploration, I found that the up_vote numbers of videos increase dramtically by time, but the up_vote numbers of videos not correlate strongly with the number of videos their authors post. Therefore, I decided toremove the variable author for the up_vote number predictions in the following steps.
3. Used the indicator whether the video has more up_votes than 75% of videos in its year as outcome variable (labeld '1' if the video has more up_vote than 75% of videos in its year, and labeled '0' otherwise), and used the lemmatized tokens in the titles as features, to train a Naive Bayes classifer. The keywords extraction function (remove_noise) effectively removes the noises from the lemmatized tokens of the titles. By checking the frequency distribution of the extracted keywords, most of the words appear frequently are the meaningful words. Only the words appear for more than 10 times in all the titles are used for training, and these training features includes 19887 words. By splitting the data into training and test sets, and implemnted the Naive Bayes classifier, the prediction accuracy can be ~58%.
4. To check which countries are mentioned in which titles and to compare which countries are mentioned more frequently, I built a list of country name/ nationality name keywords to extract the countries correctly. For the countries US and UK, the extraction involves additional procedures. The country keywords list contains 250 countries. Also, I created a table to show the top 20 mentioned countries in each year.
5. Used the indicator whether the video has more up_votes than 75% of videos in its year as outcome variableand, and used the mentioned countries in the titles as features, to train a Naive Bayes classifer. Only the "major countries", which countries are mentioned more than 30% percentiles (greater than or equal to 94 times) are used as features in the training. Only the titles contains at least one "major country" keyword are used in training. By splitting the data into training and test sets, and implemnted the Naive Bayes classifier, the prediction accuracy can be ~75%. Finland and Iceland are the countries with the highest positive:negative ratio for the classification.
6. Clustered the videos using the word stem of the tokens of the titles, by implementing K-means method. The tokenized words in the titles are transfered into stem words, and were selected based on whether the stem words are real stem words and their appearance times. xxxx stem words were used in the clustering. By clustering the videos into 10 clusters, the stem words that appear most frequently in each cluster were shown on the table.
